# FYP1-F21-10-D-ABRS
The Automated BI reporting solution with the help of three-layered architecture and ETL along with Power BI will provide the user with business insights. User can also view the current patterns in the measures with respect to one or multiple dimensions for taking informed decisions. End users will also have the capability of self service, meaning that non-technical users can make their own dashboards and reports by drag and drop.
Data will first be sourced into a landing zone and loaded into the staging layer which will be an exact copy of the source. Once data is loaded successfully it will be reconciled with the source to ensure data sanity. After that business rules and logics will be implemented and surrogate keys will be populated, and data will be loaded into the integration layer. Finally depending upon the use cases the aggregated data will be stored in the semantic layer. BI Tool will be connected to the semantic layer for the implementation of business reports and dashboards.
The three-layered model mentioned above eradicates all data issues and saves time and CPU/Memory resources as aggregated data is stored in a separate layer. It is also beneficial in data loss cases, for instance, if aggregated data from semantic layer is deleted due to any reason it can be easily loaded by running jobs incrementally for missing dates from the integration layer.
Cloudera (Hadoop) is being used that will provide storage, resourse management and fast processing of data on commodity hardware which is readily available. Single node cluster will be installed and configured. There would be multiple challenges in this process like setting up a smoothly running Hadoop Instance, query optimization and integration of tools. HDFS will be used as storage and Warehouse will be built on Impala. Reason for choosing Impala is that it creates containers/daemons when query is executed which is faster as compared to Hive. Hive uses YARN (Yet another Resource Negotiator) and its query engine is slow due to too many disk I/O operations.
Retail data set known as Adventure Works will be used for implementing five use cases which will include sales, product, purchase/vendor, person and shipment use cases. Reports for each use case will be made and finally a dashboard containing all information
